Mentor test
Answer each question in a written format

1. What does semantic HTML mean?
 
	semantic HTML is the use of HTML elements in a way that makes you code more readable.

	for example a <p> tag indicates that the text is a paragraph and anyone Is going to know what is enclosed in that element


2. What is the box model?
	
	The box model defines each element as being its own box with nested boxes that help with the sizing/spacing of an element.

	The layers from inner to outer are as follows
	
	Content, is where the content lives
	padding, pushes out and is invisible
	border is a border around the padding
	margin pushes other elements away

3. What is the difference between IDs and Classes?

	IDs are more specific and  will select just one element are signified by a # in css and will overrule classes 

	classes are less specific and can be used for many elements



4. What does the z-index do?
	z-index is how you can properly manage the layering of elements. 
	z-index only works with a position property

5. Summarize what the keyword 'this' is used for?
	this is a reserved word in js and is used to describe context. 
	this is used in implicit context is defined by what ever is to the left of the invocation of the function.
	default context is when this === window
	
	 

6. What is a callback?
	a callback is a when the parameter of a function is a function.
	higher order functions take in a callback
	for example filter

7. What is a closure?
	a function in a function that returns a function
	for example if you have a sheep pen function that creates a sheep pen array, and returns an add sheep f	unction you can call that inner function as much as you want

	when a closure is invoked, the inner function will take a snapshot of itself and its parents all the way up 	the tree. This will give it access to manipulate the variables stored within the closure

	closures can help us keep our data secure.
	closures can help make multiple copies 
	remembering data in for loops

8. How does prototype work?
	the best example I can think of is Array.push() this is accessible to all arrays, through the array Object. 
	the advantage of prototypes is that they are not created on every single array object, but each array has 	access to the prototype

	

9. What is MVC?
	Model View Controller is a design pattern.
	
	a simple explanation of the MVC is  When a user inputs some data, the data goes to the controller, 
The controller manipulates the model, and the model updates the view.
	

10. What is the component lifecycle?
	the component life cycle is the life of a component on the window. 
	when it is mounted, it is born. When it is unmounted it is dead. 

	there are lifecycle methods that are commonly used in react.
	one of the most commonly used is component
 	

11. What is REST?
Representational state transfer
Rest is a pattern of formatting urls
Post, put, get, delete. 
A restful api will have its endpoints structured as such

12. Name three ways of getting data from the URL using express

create table users (
id serial,
name varchar(255),
email varchar(255)
)

12. Given the Schema above, write the following four basic CRUD db queries using postgres syntax


-Get all users:
Select * from users

-Create a new user with the name of 'your name' and an email of 'fake@fake.com':
Insert into users(name, email)
values(‘your name’, ‘fake@fake.com’)

-Update the newly created user's name to 'Bobby Boy':
Update users set name=‘Bobby Boy’
Where users.name = ‘ your name’


-Delete the newly updated user:
Delete from users where user.name = ‘Bobby Boy’
›